---
title: Connection Disconnection
date: 2013-01-01 17:12:00 Z
categories:
- stills
- motion
image: "/uploads/connection-disconnection-thumb.jpg"
video: 195475649
images: 
is-front: true
is-info-shown: false
is-ongoing: true
layout: project
---

Within a boundary is a implied cultural value system. Political boundaries and values morph and concepts differ. These subjective borders are fragile and in many cases arbitrary as they often respect the contours of existing geography. The concept of connection and disconnection has been a reoccurring theme of my praxis. This tension that exists in so much of life, the power both pulling and separating at the same time as connecting aspects of the world that constantly surrounds us. Like an orrery in motion. The work attempts to connect a window on to this subject matter. My project focusing on Connection and Disconnection would explore these concepts where this phenomena occurs (where these divisions are most pronounced) at extreme points, without succumbing to obvious visual indicators. The locations that I have chosen so far to investigate are the Sino Korean friendship bridge between China and North Korea located in Dandong, the Thai Myanmar friendship bridge at Mae Sot, the USA Mexico border crossings between El Paso and Ciudad Juarez, the Chinese friendship highway project that passes through Chinese occupied Tibet, and the Marmaray tunnel in Istanbul Turkey that is the worlds first transcontinental tunnel and connects Europe to Asia . These locations I have chosen to look at, clearly have global geo-political significances but when first viewed in the work, this significance is not inherently apparent; seeming at times calm, simple geographical connectors. This explores the questions and the tension of the social or political weight these connections carry. In many cases they represent social ideals or act as signifiers for repressive states, but in the simplest form they are manifestations that connect and disconnect depending on the nature of the participants validity to access. “Today border crossing on the Chinese side are typically marked by large archways, known as country doors.”1 These doorways carry weighty metaphorical significance as representations of power. “The sign can signify anything, except the fact it is in the process of signifying. What cannot be signified or said in a discourse, what is a certain way unutterable, can nonetheless be shown in the discourse.”2 One of the key elements in this proposal is concerning “friendships bridges and highways”3 I found this term friendship heavily laden with irony, to whom are they friendly, is it merely a term to promote bi lateral relationships and trade or are they true metaphors for powerful friendships. “In 1959 the Asian Highway project was conceived partially to resurrect those dreams, of trade and travel and to bring the world closer together. In doing so, the Asian Highway network promotes social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom laid down in the preamble to the Charter of the United Nations.”4 This document was a key insight in to my initial understanding of the relationship between political power and global connectedness. My earlier work Europe’s Edges: Ice Core Sampling focused on the European Union and the movement and shifts around its concept. To citizens holding a European passport the union functions as a serious of open borders changes the physiological and logistical reality for the occupant and the relationships that occur within this constructed space. This is clearly evident in the situation which is currently evolving in the Ukraine where economic pressure from Russia has caused the governing powers to modify their relationships with the European Union. Thus effecting the populous relation- ship to the open borders of the European Union much to their discontent. Although functioning as polar opposites, these two investigations explore the same concepts that of relationship and the significance and power of a global communities to the process of connection and disconnection. Take for example the Maramary tunnel project in Turkey, this connection does not act as a boundary between two sovereign nations but rather serves as a transcontinental connections between Europe and Asia. Dubbed the Iron Silk Road by Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan and his leadership, his thesis claims the road opens up long dreamed of train and future cargo connection all the way from London to Beijing. This tunnel though has been built at huge cost and danger, it sits on an active fault line, but this metaphor of completing such a huge historical connection and the perceived power it creates is too tantalizing for the leadership to resist. Where at first water disconnected mans passage between continents or countries or adverse geography, engineering feats and the human desire to connect has availed. The question now arises as who do these physical connections serve and for what reason. It is relevant to my praxis that the geographical signifiers are explored in a visual media. The use of the moving image is a crucial component to my praxis, although the fixed capture of a still frame is used in my work to allow the capture of the moment based tension and the sketching of concepts. I believe the moving image is the most powerful vehicle, allowing the viewer to embark on the process of connection and disconnection, the digital sensor therefore acts as a reflection of my eye. The way in which the image is created utilizes the highest definition available and allows the viewer to connect with the reality of the form I am capturing and the striking natural visual beauty that is often inherent within these forms. This high level of definition and also the repetition used in the in the instillation of the work allows the viewer to perceive small details which exist within the frame and inform the understanding and the composition of the piece, whilst also serving to visually attract and engage the viewer to the work. In these forms created by this process, significance is not inherently apparent, the forms appear obviously as connections or disconnections but of what and to where is not clearly apparent. This allows the simple signifier of the form, movement or detail to represent the tension in the conjunction from a non critical angle. In my attempt to compose my frame I apply my research and understanding to the composition of a scene, but then my hand is removed and I allow the worlds inherent gesture and interaction to create the content within the frame. The instillation and therefore the viewers’ spacial interaction to my work plays a decisive factor as it both activates the content and becomes a point of access to the discussion surrounding the work. In terms of a proposed instillation or viewing of the work, placement of screens within space suggests of lines and boundaries opening connections and disconnections that explores there relationships, the instillation of the work would attempt to comment upon these and allow the viewer to explore these concepts. These planes of view constructed by the instillation connect the viewer and the space thus creating a exchange at which to enter and uncover. In works I have produced that do not directly concern physical boundaries , this tension between connection and disconnection stills plays a role such as the piece; The ambition of conformity never breaks individuality (The work was shot on location in Pyongyang, North Korea at the 2013 Arirang Mass Games and in Shigatse, Tibet, in the Tibet Autonomous Region of the People’s Republic of China), This work looks at the manner in which uniformity and techniques of visual language serve as devices of control. The use of slow motion to record a mass performance of children in what is intended to act as a performance of uniformity and collectiveness reveals the individuality inherent to human beings. This tension that exists between the intention and reality acts with the same functions as the geographical connections my work explores. My relationship to my work is informed by my personal understanding and interest in these connections and interactions. The work serves to open a discourse and a visual insight into these points of intersection in what is an ever developing globalized world. I believe these are crucial questions of our time, which I would very much like to explore and develop during my time

